content/index.md, before:

---
title: PlayCanvas Developer Resources
template: intro.tmpl.html
---

Welcome to the PlayCanvas Developer Site.

Whether you are a programmer, a designer or a content creator, this is the place to come to when you want to learn about PlayCanvas. Here are a few quick links to get you to the right place. Alternatively, click the links to the User Manual or Tutorial sections shown above and browse the full documentation using the menu on the left. Enjoy!

We suggest you start reading the [User Manual](/user-manual), it's the complete guide to PlayCanvas, read this through to learn everything there is to know.

[Getting Started](/getting-started) - Dive straight in and build your first PlayCanvas application.

[Tutorials](/tutorials) - Step-by-step guides for the specific features of PlayCanvas.

[API Reference](/engine/api/stable) - The complete PlayCanvas Engine reference

<hr />

## Engine Users

[Engine](/engine) - This guide will get you going if you are only using the Engine and not the PlayCanvas Designer.

<hr />

# Getting Help

#### Want to talk? [PlayCanvas Discussion](http://forum.playcanvas.com/)

Talk about your game, show off your latest project, seek out new team members, or offer your assistance to others. Join us in the discussion [forums](http://forum.playcanvas.com/).

#### Questions? [PlayCanvas Answers](http://answers.playcanvas.com/)

If you've got a technical question about using PlayCanvas, the API or any part of the platform, you can use [PlayCanvas Answers](http://answers.playcanvas.com/) to get help.

#### IRC

We're often available (UK time) on the [#playcanvas](http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=playcanvas&uio=d4) channel on [freenode](http://freenode.net).

Commit message:

play page link, updated mouse tut, skybox info

content/index.md, after:

---
title: PlayCanvas Developer Resources
template: intro.tmpl.html
---

Welcome to the PlayCanvas Developer Site.

Whether you are a programmer, a designer or a content creator, this is the place to come to when you want to learn about PlayCanvas. Here are a few quick links to get you to the right place. Alternatively, click the links to the User Manual or Tutorial sections shown above and browse the full documentation using the menu on the left. Enjoy!

We suggest you start reading the [User Manual](/user-manual), it's the complete guide to PlayCanvas, read this through to learn everything there is to know.

[Getting Started](/getting-started) - Dive straight in and build your first PlayCanvas application.

[Tutorials](/tutorials) - Step-by-step guides for the specific features of PlayCanvas.

[API Reference](/engine/api/stable) - The complete PlayCanvas Engine reference

Also, remember that you can always take a look at the [play page](https://playcanvas.com/play) to see how whole projects have been designed and built.

<hr />

## Engine Users

[Engine](/engine) - This guide will get you going if you are only using the Engine and not the PlayCanvas Designer.

<hr />

# Getting Help

#### Want to talk? [PlayCanvas Discussion](http://forum.playcanvas.com/)

Talk about your game, show off your latest project, seek out new team members, or offer your assistance to others. Join us in the discussion [forums](http://forum.playcanvas.com/).

#### Questions? [PlayCanvas Answers](http://answers.playcanvas.com/)

If you've got a technical question about using PlayCanvas, the API or any part of the platform, you can use [PlayCanvas Answers](http://answers.playcanvas.com/) to get help.

#### IRC

We're often available (UK time) on the [#playcanvas](http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=playcanvas&uio=d4) channel on [freenode](http://freenode.net).
