content/en/user-manual/packs/components/model.md, before:

---
title: Model
template: page.tmpl.html
position: 7
---

The 'model' component enables an entity to render a primitive shape or a model asset.

<img src="/images/user-manual/components/component-model.jpg" style="width: 300px" />

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped">
    <col class="property-name"></col>
    <col class="property-description"></col>
    <tr><th>Property</th><th>Description</th></tr>
    <tr><td>Enabled</td><td>If checked, the model will be added to the scene and rendered.</td></tr>
    <tr><td>Type</td><td>The type of the model to be rendered. Can be:<ul><li>Asset</li><li>Box</li><li>Capsule</li><li>Sphere</li><li>Cylinder</li><li>Cone</li></ul></td></tr>
    <tr><td>Asset</td><td>The model asset rendered by this model component. Only applies to models of type 'asset'. Only a single model can be rendered per model component.</td></tr>
    <tr><td>Cast Shadows</td><td>If enabled, the model rendered by this component will cast shadows onto other models in the scene.</td></tr>
    <tr><td>Receive Shadows</td><td>If enabled, the model rendered by this component will receive shadows cast by other models in the scene.</td></tr>
</table>

## Scripting Interface

You can control a model component's properties using a [script component][2]. The model component's scripting interface is [here][3].

## Customizing Materials

<img src="/images/user-manual/material_overrides/model.png" style="max-width: 100%" />

There are two ways to customize the materials of a model. You can click on Asset Materials to select the model Asset; there you can change the materials for every instance of the model.

Alternatively, you can click on Entity Materials to customize the materials of the selected Entities only. Clicking on Entity Materials will first ask you to select the mesh instance for which you want to customize the material:

<img src="/images/user-manual/material_overrides/select.png" style="max-width: 100%" />

After selecting the mesh instance a new material picker will appear in the model component:

<img src="/images/user-manual/material_overrides/selected.png" style="max-width: 100%" />

Then you can select a different material for this particular Entity:

<img src="/images/user-manual/material_overrides/overriden.png" style="max-width: 100%" />

[1]: /images/platform/component_model.png
[2]: /user-manual/packs/components/script
[3]: /engine/api/stable/symbols/pc.ScriptComponent.html

Commit message:

Moved material overrides section from model component to materials sectoin

content/en/user-manual/packs/components/model.md, after:

---
title: Model
template: page.tmpl.html
position: 7
---

The 'model' component enables an entity to render a primitive shape or a model asset.

<img src="/images/user-manual/components/component-model.jpg" style="width: 300px" />

## Properties

<table class="table table-striped">
    <col class="property-name"></col>
    <col class="property-description"></col>
    <tr><th>Property</th><th>Description</th></tr>
    <tr><td>Enabled</td><td>If checked, the model will be added to the scene and rendered.</td></tr>
    <tr><td>Type</td><td>The type of the model to be rendered. Can be:<ul><li>Asset</li><li>Box</li><li>Capsule</li><li>Sphere</li><li>Cylinder</li><li>Cone</li></ul></td></tr>
    <tr><td>Asset</td><td>The model asset rendered by this model component. Only applies to models of type 'asset'. Only a single model can be rendered per model component.</td></tr>
    <tr><td>Cast Shadows</td><td>If enabled, the model rendered by this component will cast shadows onto other models in the scene.</td></tr>
    <tr><td>Receive Shadows</td><td>If enabled, the model rendered by this component will receive shadows cast by other models in the scene.</td></tr>
</table>

## Scripting Interface

You can control a model component's properties using a [script component][2]. The model component's scripting interface is [here][3].

## Customizing Materials

You can learn how to customize the materials of your model [here][4].

[1]: /images/platform/component_model.png
[2]: /user-manual/packs/components/script
[3]: /engine/api/stable/symbols/pc.ScriptComponent.html
[4]: /user-manual/assets/materials/#assigning-materials
