content/en/user-manual/profile/projects.md, before:

---
title: Projects
template: usermanual-page.tmpl.html
position: 2
---

The Projects tab lists all the projects you have created or have been granted access to.

![projects_page][1]

## New Project

Click on the NEW button on the top right to create a new project.

## Delete Project

Click on the arrow next to a project and select Delete to permantently delete it from your account.

## Unlock Project

Click on the arrow next to a project and select Unlock to unlock a *locked* project. This will make the project public.

## Export Project

If you have an ORG plan, you can export a .zip archive of your project. You can later choose to import that .zip archive as a new project. You can use this mechanism to backup your projects on your machine.

To export a project click on the arrow next to a project and select Export.

## Import Project

If you have an ORG plan you can import a .zip archive that contains an export project. That .zip file must be created using the Export mechanism described above.

Click on Import Project on the left hand side of the Projects page and select the zip file to import it.


[1]: /images/platform/profile.png "Projects"

Commit message:

More info about unlocking projects

content/en/user-manual/profile/projects.md, after:

---
title: Projects
template: usermanual-page.tmpl.html
position: 2
---

The Projects tab lists all the projects you have created or have been granted access to.

![projects_page][1]

## New Project

Click on the NEW button on the top right to create a new project.

## Delete Project

Click on the arrow next to a project and select Delete to permantently delete it from your account.

## Unlock Project

Click on the arrow next to a project and select Unlock to unlock a *locked* project. Unlocking a project depends on the project owner's subscription type. If the owner has a Personal plan then Unlocking means removing any Free users from the Project (because Personal plans require all users to have a subscription). Otherwise unlocking a project means making it Public.

If you have an Organization account another way to unlock Projects is by purchasing more seats until you are no longer hitting your seats limit.

## Export Project

If you have an ORG plan, you can export a .zip archive of your project. You can later choose to import that .zip archive as a new project. You can use this mechanism to backup your projects on your machine.

To export a project click on the arrow next to a project and select Export.

## Import Project

If you have an ORG plan you can import a .zip archive that contains an export project. That .zip file must be created using the Export mechanism described above.

Click on Import Project on the left hand side of the Projects page and select the zip file to import it.


[1]: /images/platform/profile.png "Projects"
