content/en/user-manual/scripting/debugging.md, before:

---
title: Debugging
template: usermanual-page.tmpl.html
position: 7
---

In order to create scripts for PlayCanvas, it is vital that you know how to access and use the browser's development tools. Let's look at each browser in turn.

## Google Chrome

Chrome has [Developer Tools](https://developer.chrome.com/devtools) integrated directly into the browser. Access them by pressing F12 on Windows or ALT-CMD-I on Mac.

### Debugging Scripts

In order to debug your scripts, select the Sources tab in Developer Tools. Open the 'navigator' by clicking the icon in the top left corner of the Sources pane. You should see something similar to what is shown below:

<img alt="Show sources in Chrome" width="640" src="/images/platform/browser_chrome_view_sources.png"></img>

The navigator lists all of the scripts currently running in the active tab, including any PlayCanvas scripts that you have written. Find one of your scripts in the navigator and select it to open the source code. You are now able to set breakpoints and debug.

<div class="alert alert-info">
Note that when a running app is paused at a breakpoint in the debugger, other browser windows/tabs used to launch that app (containing the PlayCanvas Code Editor or Editor etc.) might also be paused.
</div>

### Installing WebGL Inspector

If you are interested in how PlayCanvas is sending data to the graphics card, then you might be interested to install [WebGL Inspector](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/ogkcjmbhnfmlnielkjhedpcjomeaghda?utm_source=chrome-ntp-icon). It's a Chrome extension, and once installed, you will see the letters 'GL' appear at the right end of the address bar/omnibox whenever you run your PlayCanvas game. If you click the GL letters, the page will reload, with two buttons in the top right of the tab: 'Capture' and 'UI'. Click 'Capture' to grab the entire state required to render the current frame, and then 'UI' to inspect the data. You should see something similar to what is shown below:

<img alt="WebGL Inspector in Chrome" width="640" src="/images/platform/browser_chrome_webgl_inspector.jpg"></img>

To find out more about how to use WebGL Inspector, visit the project's [home page](http://benvanik.github.com/WebGL-Inspector/).

Commit message:

Updating user manual for script documentation.

content/en/user-manual/scripting/debugging.md, after:

---
title: Debugging
template: usermanual-page.tmpl.html
position: 7
---

In order to create scripts for PlayCanvas, it is vital that you know how to access and use the browser's development tools. Let's look at each browser in turn.

## Google Chrome

Chrome and Firefox and other browsers have [Developer Tools](https://developer.chrome.com/devtools) integrated directly into the browser. Access them by pressing F12 on Windows or ALT-CMD-I on Mac.

### Debugging Scripts

In order to debug your scripts, select the Sources tab in Developer Tools (Chrome). Open the 'navigator' by clicking the icon in the top left corner of the Sources pane. You should see something similar to what is shown below:

![Debugger][1]

In Firefox it looks like this:

![Firefox][2]

The navigator lists all of the scripts currently running in the active tab, including any PlayCanvas scripts that you have written. Find one of your scripts in the navigator and select it to open the source code. You are now able to set breakpoints and debug.

<div class="alert alert-info">
Note that when a running app is paused at a breakpoint in the debugger, other browser windows/tabs used to launch that app (containing the PlayCanvas Code Editor or Editor etc.) might also be paused.
</div>

[1]: /images/user-manual/scripting/debugger-chrome.jpg
[2]: /images/user-manual/scripting/debugger-firefox.jpg
